EIT Health
Spain celebrated its first year of activity with an event on 15 December in the Parc Científic of Barcelona. The meeting, chaired by the president of the association, Jordi Alberch acting rector of the Universitat de Barcelona (UB), brought together representatives of all partners of the consortium as well as institutions related to the activity of the network.
The first part of the event consisted of various presentations ad  dressed to the preparation of the calls for Innovation, Campus and Accelerator next year. Andy Browning and Ursula Mühle, respectively Directors of Innovation and Education of EIT Health and Marco Pugliese, Director of EIT Health Spain and Spanish Coordinator of the pillar of Business Creation, presented the actions of the three pillars of the association – Innovation, Campus and Accelerator – for the generation of activities to be included in the business plan 2018. Then, while the partners held scheduled meetings with the three directors, the Auditorium Antoni Caparrós of the PCB hosted a series of practical sessions on how to participate in the calls which EIT Health plans to finance in 2017.
Awards for the best innovation and entrepreneurship projects
The “Proof of concept (PoC +)” awards reward projects and business ideas that are in stages prior to the creation of the company and projects that are participating in acceleration programs in health; the “Headstart (HS)” award recognizes companies already constituted with a clear orientation to the market to develop projects, products or services in health.
These awards are part of the financing initiatives of the EIT Health accelerator and have been organized by the Spanish node during 2016.
The winning project in the PoC category is Multiparametric nosological images for supporting clinical decision in solid tumors (
Multibioim
) of Elies Fuster Garcia of the Polytechnic University of Valencia; in the PoC + category is
Novel antimicrobial therapy
by Eduard Torrents, from the Institute of Bioengineering of Catalonia (IBEC) and in the category HS the company UsMIMA, for the project
TeDeMoOCC: Testing and Re-design of the prototype of MOWoOT
, a medical device as a solution for chronic constipation.
Below are listed projects financed in the three categories:
Head Start projects (funded with 50.000 € each)
4. Testing and Re-design of the prototype of MOWoOT, a medical device as solution for Chronic Constipation (TeDeMoOCC) from usMIMA
5. Clinical and technological validation of the SimVis Technology for cataract surgery (SimVisVal) from 2Eyes Vision
6. Oral Biofilter from Astradentium Health Technologies
Proof of Concept projects (funded with 25.000 € each)
1. Multiparametric nosological images for supporting clinical decision in solid tumors (Multibioim). Elies Fuster Garcia, UPV/ITACA
2. CreatSens, a novel platform for healthcare at home (CreatSens).Francisco Andrade
3. Efficacy and safety assessment of novel soluble epoxide hydrolase inhibitors for the prevention and treatment of acute pancreatitis (sEHIAPInf). Santiago Vazquez Cruz, UB
4. New antibiotics to combat hospital-acquired Gram-negative infections that not respond to current treatments (CYCLICK).Francesc Rabanal Anglada, UB
5. KN-150 as a subacute therapy for stroke (KASTS). Teresa Gasull, IGTP
6. Smart dressing for the treatment of chronic wounds (DERMOGLASS) Elisabeth Engel. IBEC
7. persoNAlized 3d-heart Printing mOdels for pLanning valvE interventiONs (NAPOLEON). Manuel Martínez Toran, UPV
Proof of Concept Plus projects (funded with 12.500 € each)
3. Novel antimicrobial therapy. Eduard Torrents, IBEC
4. An improve formulation and delivery of biopharmaceuticals by protein crystals in gels. Luis Álvarez de Cienfuegos, Universidad de Granada.
Read more
here
.
Catch up with the latest news from the EIT Community in the Newsroom
.
Subscribe to the EIT Newsletter
to get the best of the EIT Community's news in your inbox once each month.
Engage with us
Find us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe to our YouTube Channel
Follow us on +Google
Linked in
